CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to mock-server

Thanks for wanting to make HTTP errors funnier! Here's how to contribute.

## Adding Responses

The easiest way to contribute is by adding new sarcastic responses to `responses.json`.

### Steps

1. Fork this repository
2. Edit `responses.json`
3. Run `npm run validate` to check your changes
4. Open a Pull Request

### Format

`responses.json` is a JSON object where keys are HTTP status codes and values are arrays of strings:

```json
{
  "404": [
    "Existing message...",
    "Your new message here!"
  ]
}
```

### Rules

- **Keep it funny, not offensive.** Sarcastic and snarky is great. Slurs, hate speech, or targeted harassment is not. Maintainers reserve the right to reject anything that crosses the line.
- **Max 200 characters per message.** Keep it punchy.
- **No duplicates.** Check existing messages for your status code before adding.
- **No URLs, HTML, or executable content.** Plain text only.
- **No personal information.** Don't include names, emails, or identifying info.
- **Valid HTTP status codes only.** Codes must be between 100 and 599.
- **Valid JSON.** Run `npm run validate` before submitting. Broken JSON will be auto-rejected.

### Adding a New Status Code

You can add responses for any valid HTTP status code (100-599) that doesn't exist yet. Just add a new key to the JSON object with at least one message:

```json
{
  "402": [
    "Payment required. My therapy bills aren't going to pay themselves."
  ]
}
```

## Reporting Issues

Use GitHub Issues. Be specific about what's wrong or what you'd like to see.

## Code Changes

For changes beyond `responses.json` (server logic, infrastructure, etc.), please open an issue first to discuss the approach.

## Security

If you find a security vulnerability, please **do not** open a public issue. Email the maintainer directly or use GitHub's private vulnerability reporting.

Commit message:

Restructure responses from single JSON file to per-status-code directory
Replace responses.json with a responses/ directory containing one JSON
file per HTTP status code (e.g. responses/404.json). This reduces merge
conflicts when multiple contributors edit different status codes.

- Split responses.json into 20 individual files in responses/
- Update index.js to load from responses/ directory at startup
- Rewrite validate.js to validate per-file structure
- Update Dockerfile to copy responses/ directory
- Update all documentation (README, CONTRIBUTING, CLAUDE.md)

https://claude.ai/code/session_01HZ4evZBgFsSYrDmS25Vfu6

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to mock-server

Thanks for wanting to make HTTP errors funnier! Here's how to contribute.

## Adding Responses

The easiest way to contribute is by adding new sarcastic responses to files in the `responses/` directory.

### Steps

1. Fork this repository
2. Edit an existing file in `responses/` (e.g. `responses/404.json`) or create a new one
3. Run `npm run validate` to check your changes
4. Open a Pull Request

### Format

Each file in `responses/` is named after an HTTP status code and contains a JSON array of strings:

**`responses/404.json`**
```json
[
  "Existing message...",
  "Your new message here!"
]
```

### Rules

- **Keep it funny, not offensive.** Sarcastic and snarky is great. Slurs, hate speech, or targeted harassment is not. Maintainers reserve the right to reject anything that crosses the line.
- **Max 200 characters per message.** Keep it punchy.
- **No duplicates.** Check existing messages for your status code before adding.
- **No URLs, HTML, or executable content.** Plain text only.
- **No personal information.** Don't include names, emails, or identifying info.
- **Valid HTTP status codes only.** Codes must be between 100 and 599.
- **Valid JSON.** Run `npm run validate` before submitting. Broken JSON will be auto-rejected.

### Adding a New Status Code

Create a new file named `{code}.json` in the `responses/` directory with at least one message:

**`responses/402.json`**
```json
[
  "Payment required. My therapy bills aren't going to pay themselves."
]
```

## Reporting Issues

Use GitHub Issues. Be specific about what's wrong or what you'd like to see.

## Code Changes

For changes beyond the `responses/` directory (server logic, infrastructure, etc.), please open an issue first to discuss the approach.

## Security

If you find a security vulnerability, please **do not** open a public issue. Email the maintainer directly or use GitHub's private vulnerability reporting.
